Wishing to get a better view than I had yet had of the ocean, which,
we are told, covers more than two-thirds of the globe, but of which a
man who lives a few miles inland may never see any trace, more than of
another world, I made a visit to Cape Cod in October, 1849, another
the succeeding June, and another to Truro in July, 1855; the first and
last time with a single companion, the second time alone. I have
spent, in all, about three weeks on the Cape; walked from Eastham to
Province-town twice on the Atlantic side, and once on the Bay side
also, excepting four or five miles, and crossed the Cape half a dozen
times on my way; but having come so fresh to the sea, I have got but
little salted. My readers must expect only so much saltness as the
land breeze acquires from blowing over an arm of the sea, or is tasted
on the windows and the bark of trees twenty miles inland, after
September gales. I have been accustomed to make excursions to the
ponds within ten miles of Concord, but latterly I have extended my
excursions to the seashore.

I did not see why I might not make a book on Cape Cod, as well as my
neighbor on "Human Culture." It is but another name for the same
thing, and hardly a sandier phase of it. As for my title, I suppose
that the word Cape is from the French cap; which is from the Latin
caput, a head; which is, perhaps, from the verb capere, to take,—that
being the part by which we take hold of a thing:—Take Time by the
forelock. It is also the safest part to take a serpent by. And as for
Cod, that was derived directly from that "great store of codfish"
which Captain Bartholomew Gosnold caught there in 1602; which fish
appears to have been so called from the Saxon word codde, "a case in
which seeds are lodged," either from the form of the fish, or the
quantity of spawn it contains; whence also, perhaps, codling (pomum
coctile?) and coddle,—to cook green like peas. (V. Dic.)

Cape Cod is the bared and bended arm of Massachusetts: the shoulder is
at Buzzard's Bay; the elbow, or crazy-bone, at Cape Mallebarre; the
wrist at Truro; and the sandy fist at Provincetown,—behind which the
State stands on her guard, with her back to the Green Mountains, and
her feet planted on the floor of the ocean, like an athlete protecting
her Bay,—boxing with northeast storms, and, ever and anon, heaving up
her Atlantic adversary from the lap of earth,—ready to thrust forward
her other fist, which keeps guard the while upon her breast at Cape
Ann.

On studying the map, I saw that there must be an uninterrupted beach
on the east or outside of the forearm of the Cape, more than thirty
miles from the general line of the coast, which would afford a good
sea view, but that, on account of an opening in the beach, forming the
entrance to Nauset Harbor, in Orleans, I must strike it in Eastham, if
I approached it by land, and probably I could walk thence straight to
Race Point, about twenty-eight miles, and not meet with any
obstruction.

We left Concord, Massachusetts, on Tuesday, October 9th, 1849. On
reaching Boston, we found that the Provincetown steamer, which should
have got in the day before, had not yet arrived, on account of a
violent storm; and, as we noticed in the streets a handbill headed,
"Death! one hundred and forty-five lives lost at Cohasset," we decided
to go by way of Cohasset. We found many Irish in the cars, going to
identify bodies and to sympathize with the survivors, and also to
attend the funeral which was to take place in the afternoon;—and when
we arrived at Cohasset, it appeared that nearly all the passengers
were bound for the beach, which was about a mile distant, and many
other persons were flocking in from the neighboring country. There
were several hundreds of them streaming off over Cohasset common in
that direction, some on foot and some in wagons,—and among them were
some sportsmen in their hunting-jackets, with their guns, and
game-bags, and dogs. As we passed the graveyard we saw a large hole,
like a cellar, freshly dug there, and, just before reaching the shore,
by a pleasantly winding and rocky roet deep, and here and there was a
bonnet or a jacket on it. In the very midst of th
